TDS FROM PAYMENT TO CONTRACTORS

1. Central Government or State Governments

2. Any Local Authority

3. Any Corporation established under Central, State or Provincial Act.

4. Any Company

5. Any Co-operative Society

6. Any authority, constituted in India under any law, engaged either for the purpose of dealing with and satisfying the need for housing accommodation or for the purpose of planning, development or im- provement of cities, towns and villages, or for both (ie., DDA, HUDA, etc.)

7. Any society registered under Societies Registration Act, 1860 or under any corresponding Act in force in any part of India.

8. Any Trust

9. Any University, established under a Central or State or Provincial Act and an institution declared to be a University under Section 3 of the University Grant Commission.

10. Any Government of a foreign State or a foreign enterprise or any Association or Body, established outside India.

11. Any Firm

12. An individual, or a HUF or an AOP or a BOI, (not following in the above Points ie. 1 to 11), if its gross receipts or turnover, in the financial year immediately preceding financial year in which sum is paid or credit- ed to the contractor, exceeds Rs. 1 crore in case of business and Rs. 50 lakhs in case of a profession. An individual or HUF, not liable for deduction of tax under this provision, shall deduct tax in accordance with provisions of Section 194M.

Tax is required to be deducted under this provision only if sum is payable to a person who is resident in India. This provision is not applicable in case of non-resident contractor.

Types of Payment Tax shall be deducted under this provision only if the sum is paid or pay- able, in pursuance of a contract or sub-contract, for carrying out any work including supply of labour for carrying out any work.

For this purpose, the 'work' shall include following:

(a) Advertising

(6) Broadcasting or telecasting including production of programs for such broadcasting or telecasting

(c) Carriage of goods or passengers by any mode of transport other than by railways

(d) Catering

(e) Manufacturing or supplying a product as per requirement or specifi- cation of a customer by using material purchased from such customer

or its associate, being a relative as defined under section 40A(2)(b).

Timedidaction

However, it does not include manufacturing or supplying a product according to the requirement or specification of a customer by using material purchased from a person, other than such customer or associate of such customer. The tax is deducted at the time of payment or at the time of

credit of sum, whichever is earlier. The tax shall be deducted even if the sum is credited to any account, whether called 'Interest payable account' or 'suspense account'.

Theshold limit

Tax is required to be deducted under this provision only if the amount gate or credited in single payment exceeds Rs. 30,000 or Rs. 100,000 in aggregate during the financial year.
